In 1648 the water board of Lekdijk Bovendams had to repair this dam
to ensure that this part of the Netherlands is not overrun.
They needed money for that,
so they sold a bond.
Whoever owned that bond would get a little money from them every year.
But, unlike modern bonds, they had not set a time limit.
Eternal debt can be a thing in finance.
It's like you're selling a share in a company,
but normal means "eternal": "until the company breaks down".
But this company did not go broke.
3.5 years later the original bond landed at ...
GPS: "Take exit 47."
... here, at Yale University in New Haven, Conecticut, USA,
and interest is still paid for.
Eternal bonds date back to the Middle Ages.
All bonds were eternal bonds
and the fact that bonds really get older
and paying back the original investment is a financial innovation.
River plains do not correspond to state or city boundaries,
so there were separate governments to oversee the dikes.
These organizations had the power to levy taxes.
Everyone who was protected by a dike
had to pay taxes to pay the maintenance.
And they never had an earllog,
so the combination of tax can lift and not wage war -
- where governments normally go bankrupt -
ensures that interest is still paid for these bonds.
Tax was sometimes too little to pay everything,
so they released this bond.
The water board, which I think goes back to 1328,
is merged with ever larger organizations.
They have merged all these water boards
and now it is called Stichtse Rijnlanden, which still pays the interest for the bond.
These markings are the annual interest payments
that have been taking place since 1648.
If you go to the other side,
you see that the whole back
it is also covered with small markings,
what the interest payments are
that have been paid out over the years.
At some point the bond was full.
There was no room left,
and then they have released this piece of paper
with even more markers for interest payments.
When Yale bought the bond in 2003,
and we collected our interest payment,
you see that the last interest payment
had taken place in 1976.
So there was 27 years of interest that still had to be paid.
We left the bond here for 12 years,
and then, in 2015, we have 2004, 2005, 2006,
collected up to 2015.
There is a photo somewhere
from me in the Netherlands, where I hold the bond in one hand
and the interest payments for Yale in the other
as the bearer of the bond.
It is a bit disappointing.
The bond was first worth 1000 karolus guilders.
Karolus guilders became other guilders, I believe.
They were again, now, euros.
At a given moment they have adjusted the interest payments somewhat downwards.
So, to make a long story short,
we receive € 11.35 in interest for this bond every year.
You know, the value of this bond
is obviously the fact that he is still running.
It is probably just as exciting for them
as for us to show this bond
and the possibility to pay interest.
Dutch water boards could now probably file for bankruptcy
on the debt, if they wanted to.
It costs more than the bond is worth
to let someone fly over every few decades.
And let's face it, Yale probably would not start an international lawsuit.
But, for € 1, - per month,
the water boards are part of it
from a strange piece of living financial history,
and they also get good publicity in return.
It may not be a subscription that they would take on purpose,
but it is apparently worth it for them.
I think they have a pretty good history.
They sound like a triple-A company in my ears,
and I think we're still having a good time together.
[Translation by Eric Spreen & Niels de Groot]